the eu's foreign policy Chief says
ending support for the un's agency for
Palestinian refugees would mean a
greater humanitarian disaster in Gaza
Joseph Bell was speaking after talks
between EU development ministers and the
leaders of the agency unra Israel has
said 12 anra workers were involved in
the Hamas Terror attacks on October 7th
many of the organizations donors in
including EU member states have since
suspended their funding pending review
which is still going
on with war still engulfing Gaza an
organization tasked with protecting
Palestinians is in crisis Israeli
allegations that several un staffers
were involved in the October 7th Terror
attacks have prompted doubt among some
Western
donors it goes without saying that we've
suspended Aid and we want a full
investigation there can be no business
as
usual the United Nations relief and
works Agency for Palestine refugees in
the near East or unra was founded back
in
1949 the organization tasked with
offering Aid and protection to
Palestinian refugees is active in Gaza
the West Bank East Jerusalem Jordan
Lebanon and Syria but now some of its
biggest backers including Germany have
temporarily paused payments the European
union says it will decide on its next
cash injection later this month but
individual EU member states are divided
countries including the Netherlands
Finland and Sweden have also Frozen
funds for now but others including
Belgium and Ireland have vowed to
continue payments while Portugal and
Spain have upped their pledges
withdrawing funding for such an agency
amounts to a collective punishment of
the Palestinian people who are actually
going through an undescribable situation
in terms of Human Rights so I am very
proud of what the Spanish government is
doing Israel has long been critical of
unra and argues that Hamas considered a
terrorist group by the EU and us has
infiltrated the agency its Embassy in
Brussels sent us this statement Israel
is committed to provide humanitarian Aid
to gaza's civilian population in
accordance with international law
however due to the blatant evidence
against unra and its members involvement
in Terrorist activities we propose that
the aid will be provided by alternative
means but un experts say that's not
feasible there is no way uh any
organization can replace or substitute
the tremendous capacity the fabric of
unra the ability uh and their knowledge
of the population in Gaza unra has fired
10 employees and the first results from
an independent review of the agency are
expected in March but the body says it
needs funds now to help keep people
alive